just remember when you do have m&a
discussions with companies you're being
bought to solve a problem the problem
might be a feature Gap the problem might
be I got three years behind the problem
might be I'm going to miss the quarter
the problem might be it might be a
positive problem but I want to use
leverage on my model to combine two
companies but you're like M the
advantage to m&a is it's a quick fix to
a problem a flawed F an often flawed fix
and hair on it but like you can an
executive or CE in a matter of weeks can
solve a problem that otherwise would
take years or maybe impossible to solve
so if you want to get acquired be the
solution like not don't listen be the
solution listen and then figure out what
problem you want to solve and sell
yourself as the solution welcome
everyone we have a great session today
David Frankle managing partner of
founder Collective founder Collective is
probably one of the most jaw-dropping
successful seed funds that maybe has a
slightly lower profile than folks that
shout from the roof every day on social
media so we'll chat about that in in
incredible companies from the trade Des
to Olo to coupang to like just and I
want to briefly talk about David about
investing but the other day he wrote
something on Twitter on a niche topic it
is a niche topic but it's so important
to Founders and he wrote up his 10-point
checklist on what to use when you sell
your company and I thought in all the
years I've been doing this was the best
thing I've seen on m&a on selling your
company the best thing it is a topic
that is found you don't have to obsess
about every hour but I like his
checklist so much I put together a
saster post on it with my learnings
because I wanted you to dust this off
when you get that email when you get
that call and I want everyone to know
just enough about this to be smart right
and the reality is look we've had five
IPOs in B2B since 2021 so if you're
gonna have an exit someday it's probably
going to be MMA yeah and Jason thanks so
much for noticing that post and for
having me alongside I you're I've been
reading your stuff for years right
you're truly you're a SAS Legend and
there there are very few VCS who for so
many years have been like teachers not
bankers and I count you amongst them so
it's a great pleasure uh to be here with
you yes and tell us just I'll tell you
listen I've been following the partners
at founder Collective since I started to
get on social media the deal that made
my jaw fall off for Founders was the
trade desk though on this slide there's
some these are some good ones right we
can talk about Uber and coupang and all
these but the trade desk from both the
founder and a VC perspective is the gem
we all dream of basically one and a half
rounds led by you guys and both owning
20% harder to do today right harder to
do today and that was about all the
company needed I know it had a slightly
rough quarter but basically like 38
straight quarters of execution were tens
of billions of dollars today that's in
its in its own way it's like one of the
greatest VC Investments of all time
isn't it yeah it's it is all credit to
Eric py my founding partner and he's one
of the most humble brilliant people
you've ever met you I think Eric and
it's he stuck with it Traders we broke
the rules we we wrote a significant
initial check but then they were out of
money and there was no money and like we
were committed fund one was a literally
zero Reserve fund we were there was no
follow on zero like we said we were seed
and preed that's exactly that's it and
we had no choice and reie Miro Eric just
mindblowing Eric was on the board of the
trade desk till about I think about a
year and a half ago two years ago we
owned roughly 12% at IPO and frankly
going into this topic trade desk is one
of the reasons I think we're going to
talk about selling companies but the the
disclaimer is I hate selling I hate
selling anything actually I look in the
rearview M I go everything I've sold
pretty much has been a mistake so I'm a
contrarian I've been through enough
sales processes to to try figure out
what works and what doesn't if you're in
that process but Eric I have the most
amazing Partners Eric did Uber the trade
desk and whoop not on this but our new
Spate Micah did vard which just got a
huge valuation and is the winning
company in that space yeah all obvious
but so hard to execute between them and
what Amanda's doing and Joe I feel like
the the luckiest partner on the the
planet that's for sure pretty lucky so I
want to talk about m& to frame the
discussion and let's go through the 10
points that you made you said something
that I
have in the last 18 months I've changed
my mind on which is a little bit I've
got or at least I would say like many
things I've gotten more gray than black
and white which is that all the ones
that you sold you wish they didn't sell
right you've seen and I'm gonna assume
the reason why is you saw that growth go
later right you saw part of the reason
saster was written is I had these
regrets of selling I sold the business
at a million a month growing 100% with
110% NR that was cash flow positive you
would never sell a business like that
today right and I saw it even while it's
market share decline still grow to 250
million even neglected right that's the
power of recurring Revenue right from 12
to 250 but what I learned I've learned a
lot of lessons from the 2021 boom and I
also learned some of them should have
taken the offer yeah yeah should have
taken the offer right yeah we've all got
those right I think Market timing is
incredibly difficult and just to your
point overcoming the initial inertia
making the mistakes galvanizing a team
and having this team where you trust
each other and you believe in each
other's competence and you keep on
growing it's very hard to get paid for
that growth and then even if your growth
is kind flattened out but you've got
some kind of sight lines to the next
inflection yeah to me I often advise
Founders like take a 3- week break and
if you need more take two months take us
a b IAL comeback because so often folks
are just too tired they're tired or
they're I don't know they're bored
they're not energized enough and it's
just easy to stare down what you have
and totally take it for granted yeah for
sure it used to be I when I started this
as I would track a lot of m&a back then
and I found that so much m&a happened
around year five because that's you
start to get really tired after four
years and then a decent offer comes in
around five and it's enough like it's
more sometimes it's more on an ABS
quietly on an absolute basis than you
need as a found forget about the VC side
and a lot and in fact there is a very
well-known BC firm that a few years ago
had a practice to buy Founders around
five years they actually went in
tactically a multi-billion dollar VC
fund that kind of had a PE like element
and they would try to buy out and year
five was their magic moment because it's
PE it's fantastic PE f look the obvious
tactic and and we use this a lot is just
encourage the Founders in particularly
if it's a if it's a particularly
valuable round is just take 10% off the
table right like yeah you risk yourself
take pressure off yourself but I listen
to you and I think in my very first
business in my early 20s my partners and
I were offered $5 million by Sprint to
buy the business so grateful we said no
Olo PayPal offered to buy the business
PayPal came in and made a100 million
offer and literally it was like
Christmas and that that deal fell
through Noah and I were very
disappointed I remember like like the
29th of December they offered to invest
5 million at 100 million we took the
money we bought them out pre the IPO but
you look back and you go the favors that
were done to us like when it's like
these things fell through and we were
left to continue to accrete and in these
accretive growth
situations if nothing else and it plays
into our discussion to be had now is
think of that as alternative think of
that the the worst alternative is you
keep on growing and owning your
fantastic business yes I think so I
think for what it's then let's get into
your points my only nuances today are
one I when found and I just went through
this with the founder that had a similar
Olo type deal much bigger but just went
through it and I asked them this I said
I boiled it down to them I said
listen how badly do you want it because
the IPO I'm going to simplify the IPO
bar today is 50% growth at 500 million
okay now that's not a billion dollar IPO
that's a much bigger IPO if you're all
in on that if you can smell it if you
can taste it if you can feel it say no
but if you're not sure take the take a
couple weeks to your point and maybe
take the deal if you I know it's hard
that's just my Nuance because the
outcomes are bigger but the bar is
higher and I want you to want it right
you got to want it because I just think
in the other thing in the age I believe
in this recurring Revenue it's called
saster right but I think we're in an age
now where AI is is fueling so many
competitors that if you don't want it
badly enough you're going to fall behind
in a way you didn't used to I I believe
you're going to fall behind right I I
think there's always that risk but to to
one of your earlier points we look at
what Founders want to do all day long
right and if our Founders say we want to
sell and we think those are really
coherent and good reasons right like you
have no choice but often there is an
investor on the cap table that's been
there for a long time and their model
it's like the tail wagging the dog here
their model is they need to see some
liquidity for the next fund so there are
often very problematic reasons in yeah
but but they get us to the point where
if you're going to sell then I think
there is a checklist and I think there
is a way of optimizing that yeah it was
now wanting into the checklist one of
the many mistakes I made as a Founder in
m&a and I think it would be I don't know
if it would be different today I think
it would be different today is I was
scared of my VCS my first startup I had
years of Runway my second startup we
went cash flow positive at 5 million so
I wasn't scared of the VCS in the sense
that I had to listen to their
but I was
scared they would block any m&a I was
scared that they would narrow my options
I was scared they would say no to
everything and it clouded my way of
thinking about in ways it shouldn't have
right that there is this VC Mantra that
the founders want to sell you should
sell right and I think V Founders should
find out if it's
true maybe they should ask if they're
worried yeah I I and I think the
different incentives play a lot right
because the I have this views if you're
growing and you just keep growing right
like really keep growing and see where
this thing goes but again there are
other Tim taes at play and Founders get
tired we've all been through it Founders
get really tired and then they also have
people around them they have CFOs they
have C who's saying it could be time you
see that big and sometimes like the
mistake we make is we take pressure out
of the system by giving the founders
some kind of liquidity but we don't
think enough about the rest of the team
and then the team's playing on the found
even that growth even that non-stop
growth comes at a price and you're lucky
to have it but I've seen most of the
situations I've been in and I regret so
many situations that I've sold in media
radar is a great example new york-based
one of the biggest media sales SAS
businesses Todd kryman is it got time
for some of the investors and Bane Scott
FR was in that with us and Bane had been
in it for many have been very patient
and at some point they're going it's
time and I think that's where many VC
funds many investors don't have the
ability structurally to go I'm going to
keep this going so in a fund one or a
fund two like we can do that all day
long we can say look we provided a lot
of liquidity to our LPS they'll trust us
in these situations and frankly there
have been situations where we've thought
of we've done it less than we thought of
it but is of just rolling with the next
set of investors
yeah okay so let's this is the checklist
again on saster I wrote up all of
David's point and I added a few
anecdotes on it on this post whenever
you get into ma this 10-point checklist
and we'll keep updating it I I would
like it to be a canonical piece of
content to help Founders this first one
so let's go through them but this one's
it takes a while to understand buyer
motivations know what they're buying do
a little bit more of a deep dive here in
practice what have you seen yeah so I
think you really do have to understand
and it comes from listening and speaking
and engaging with buyers and Y hopefully
what you've had the opportunity to do is
have those conversations before the
moment where you say my company's for
sale so you actually know what you're
going to plug there and I do think that
if you have this luxury you've got to
tailor your pitch for those different
buyers an example could be Amazon ppack
where really I think what Amazon was
ultimately interested in was the
Software System we thought the that the
packaging the robotic packaging and the
delivery mechanism was like incredibly
novel and it was but the reality was
Amazon could replicate that and make it
better in a hotbeat that wasn't what
they needed but the spaghetti between
the providers and the insurers and the
pbms so the pharmacy benefit managers
actually making that system coherent and
making it work with multiple
stakeholders that was a huge software
effort and it's it is Amazon Pharmacy
today it's literally based on that
pillpack code and we always look at that
as this was just an enabler right like
the real business was like the what the
consumer saw and the consumer packaging
and messaging and we had to get that
right but that was what Amazon was
interested in so tailoring and
understanding that makes a huge
difference in some cases you need to
look at your people and go it's very
difficult to put this team together what
they're actually doing is they're
interested in us for an aqua hire and
these can be very expensive aqu you look
at like the Google character deal right
like off off the charts yeah it's uh
it's very difficult to put this group of
five six 10 20 people together and
that's what they're interested in
understanding that motivation I think is
a step change right because you're you
then have the emotional intelligence to
understand what's their willingness to
pay how aligned are we if they're
looking this as a cheap appoh high and
we think we want this as a multiple of
our revenues we're totally mismatched
and I think that's how particularly in
larger situations when you hire Bankers
that's how you keep the bankers honest
and that that sounds almost negative
that's how you work with the bankers
that's how you empower the bankers and
that's how you become a kind of team
that gets to the finish line but
understanding what each acquire because
typically they from multiple acquirers
there could be people who value you from
a fintech perspective there could be
people who value from a SAS perspective
there could be companies who view their
like their lineup as boring right but
understanding why they invested and what
they're interested in matters right so
comes down to listening I think it's
listening asking and one little tell I
just was thinking live in the meetings
I've been at watch who they bring to the
early
meetings if they drag a very technical
leader right right it's a sign right
it's a sign right if they bring a GM of
the business unit or something they're
going to care about your Revenue right
if they bring the CTO to Tech who they
bring because they want to they want to
socialize the deal or get opinions or
decide right and when I looking back
that extra person in the back of the
rooms has been very telling on which of
they what they want to buy here right
yeah and and then some of it's sometimes
it's more obvious than other times like
really understanding the motivations of
your buyer what your buyer trying to do
what is their thesis how do you play to
their thesis matters yeah a lot I think
the key takeaway here is a lot align the
pitch to what which of these three they
really want and so often we the
short-term revenue of the target is
immaterial to the acquire what is Amazon
doing in Revenue today it doesn't matter
who they buy yeah the further you are on
the P Spectrum probably the more
important revenues but whatever it is
you got to listen it's often different
than we think and even understanding
okay so what are the buyers alternatives
to you as a Target and could someone be
a better fit so understanding your
Dynamics and your desirability matters
too and that's by the way that goes to
trying to build something that is
distinctive that has a mo for all the
reasons that you should build anyway but
certainly that stares you in the face
when you're looking at m&a yeah this
one's the next one share the story fully
commit to the process selling's highly
distractive don't proceed unless you're
all in I do think you have to take baby
steps to learn right there is a line
right where it's not that one meeting is
not a huge distraction is it but share
your learnings here yeah so just in
fness this is size and this is size
dependent right some of what I will say
is when You' got a CEO that has a really
good sea Suite that's built out and that
CEO is is not Frontline selling and
they've got a fantastic coo and CFO then
it's easier to commit to a process right
it's easier to spend time on the process
if you're in year three and you're still
it's still like founder Le sales and you
don't have your team built out as much
then the then the cost of the
distraction can be that much higher but
it's even like fundraising is I see
people taking one meeting and then One
Fund says they're interested but you
never had any other funds involved and
that just takes on a life of its own any
process think hard about whether you
want to go and if you do want to go
understand that it's going to take time
some of the best fundraisers I've seen
say I'm going to effectively take three
weeks off my business and I'm going to
raise this round m&a you put so much
time and effort into building your
company into putting this team together
energizing the team you name it every
aspect of building and yet you're going
to half ass your sales process like
arguably one of the most important
things in your life and I see it done so
I think the fact is it's not just the
founders that have to be fully committed
and aligned and an agreement but it's
your top people and there's a balancing
act here between how many people know
about it and leaks but your top arguably
your CFO your coo your top people who
are going to be involved in diligence
need to be committed need to put time
aside and need to drive that process
otherwise you're doing yourself an
enormous disservice and this these
processes take tremendous time yeah this
one I put up if if folks want to watch I
interviewed Ben Chestnut at saso right
after they sold uh MailChimp to 12
billion into it there are actually a lot
of learnings but one is they had a deal
before that that fell apart and it
almost destroyed the team he said going
to your point it really reson almost
destroyed the team they thought this
deal was going to happen it consumed a
year and then the deal with into it took
a full year it took a full year right to
happen right from the beginning to end
so that's two years on this journey and
the and it was just burned into them how
much that first one falling apart almost
just wrecked the team it was so
distracting and then it didn't happen
smaller deals don't all they can take
two years actually one in one but it's
it is it was this happens all the time
versions of it there there are many
reasons also that are outside of the
team that those fall apart many reasons
if you look at like the Amazon ioot that
was a regulatory reason last year that
fell apart but wow that that has I it's
not hasn't destroyed the company but wow
that is been a huge value loss situation
with people leing the the drumming into
the people who are involved in that
sales process forget even creating
competition other alternative is we just
say this was not the right time and
we're going to continue to grow this
business you've got customers have to
believe that as well so you have to go
look we tried we we had some very
interesting inbound it was tough not to
like take it seriously and you we just
figured out this was it's really easier
said than done this but I know it like
the team gets so into it It's just tough
to pull out other related point and
let's hit the next one is that brings up
to your point is what you don't fully
realize until you've been on the other
side until I was a VP at Adobe or saw a
few times is on fully committed is
almost every corporation even at the co
level the priorities change every year
so you talked about deals falling apart
for regulatory like over other reason
deals falls apart the SVP leaves or is
fired that's actually a top reason for
like sub Billion Dollar Deals is the
head of the business unit retires or is
kicked out or his fire all of a sudden
that's not on the it's not on his or her
priority list even at the COO it changes
it's even at the co it changes I so Gro
with that I so Brock with that the we've
seen that time and time again the
exactly the point actually the CEO like
the co is being fired and the board knew
but you got what's wrong with me and in
the rear view mirror you see the COO is
being fired or you go why were so we put
up a a satellite with Intel set this is
in another lifetime we own 25% Intel set
own
75% they just like the leadership who we
thought were pretty great there we dealt
with the COO all the time they just put
the screws on this partnership all day
long and 6 months after you've exited
you go what was going on there and they
just said look we had our new PE
investors the level of pressure that was
being put on us on every single project
and you don't know about that so at some
point you've got to remember that as
well remember that there are facts and
circumstances that are extraneous to
your little deal right in inverted
commas your world right that you don't
have a handle on and maybe that in
itself is a reason to say take a moment
here and pull out yeah for sure okay
manage team expectations we probably hit
this one before it as simple as make
manage their don't let them start
planning their new Tesla or beach homes
or anything beyond that it's a bit of
man slip between the cup and the lip
like this is a 3% like just because
we're going into play doesn't mean we'll
get it done doesn't mean we'll get it
done now and the default is you have a
job at a company that is hopefully doing
well again if you've got a company that
is not doing well that is not growing
that is not meeting your expectations
your your funders expectations your
Market expect then you got a different
situation on your hands and in the
context of this conversation I guess
it's not fair not to mention that side
of the spectrum but over there probably
the expectation to manage is this is
going to be very hard to sell this is
going to be very hard to sell other than
as an aqua hire because we've taken a
lot of money we unfortunately we've made
some mistakes and we don't deserve much
more than that so either way being open
and honest and aligned with your top
stakeholders can save you a tremendous
amount of
time yeah for sure I think looking back
one of the simplest things to do with
the broader team is just to say listen
we're doing this in large part to learn
don't take it too seriously be 90%
honest don't share these two things over
here but don't take it too seriously
either odds that's happening are very
low we're here to learn is as long as
that there's a lot of Truth in that I
think it's helpful messaging right yeah
I I listened to that I guess a little
bit of my push back is we hire Bankers
for a100 million
exits think they professionalize the
process and it's good C bad C but
testimonial marketing about the business
once you've hired a banker and you've
commit like it gets tougher to say we're
only here once you've hired a banker the
process has I want to hit that before
run out of time because I'm with you for
any deal even approaching 100 million
you should hire a banker right you it
always pays for
itself I think always I found and I
don't want to do it out of order it was
one of my top 10 mistakes as a Founder
if you don't hire a banker even if they
don't get you another offer which they
probably don't even if they don't get
you another deal do even if they don't
negotiate better than you could they
take the pressure off of you as a
Founder so you don't have to be the bad
guy that alone makes you everybody more
money yeah someone's got to say no
that's a bad deal no we don't want to do
that term I would say I'm with you it
increases the chances of getting to the
finish line and sometimes it's and
everyone thinking of selling their
company should look at this carefully
but James Kim at Catalyst had sold
multiple businesses or at Le I don't
know two or three businesses to Amazon
and he has their trust and respect
relationship with buyer matters as well
like you're buying that as well just
your chances are getting the finish line
or accelerated for sure yeah the only
exception I know we're out of order but
I think it's okay the only exception I
found to this Banker role and I've
written this so many times hire a bank
one of the earliest Aster posts if you
sell your company hire a banker right
huge mistake I made um the second time
the one Nuance I found over the years is
when the cosos know each other now you
can push back on this right but there
are times when there is a deep level of
trust between the two cosos and the co
reaches out to someone they've known for
years and says David I want to buy your
startup okay I know the last run was at
a 100 I'd like to do 150 and you say no
Jason it's got to be at least three
times the last round 300 and you get get
there right quickly is
trust I've found folks bring in a banker
into that and I've seen several deals
fall apart because all of a sudden greed
slips into a trust and it breaks the
trust right I don't think it's going to
break uh the 10 billion doll deal to
change the company but when the co
doesn't have to do the deal when they
don't have to and they reach out to a
friend and they muck it up the
Friendship gets broke I know these are
business friendships but I've seen this
happen twice where the banker mucked up
a CO too deal The Only Exception yeah
look the what you're articulating is
rare it happens for sure someone was
pursuing that company someone was
strategically interested in the target
for very long time and it's like un
unequivocal and you get to an
arrangement that works for both sides
I've definitely seen that even in that
situation some kind of intermediary to
professionalize and get it it could be
good lawyers right it could be like
great lawyers on both sides but
particularly if the buyer has a
successful and experienced m&a team so
again this is size dependent then you're
up against an m&a team that's been there
done that a lot and you're doing your
first rodeo to do that without and I
agree it can be deal Savvy lawyers
professionalizing it is tougher I've
seen bankers and VCS generally help get
that to the finish line for sure I I'm
with you you need that leverage I've
just seen the banker I've seen their
this this trust thing just get broken by
Bankers recycling starting the process
over again as their job and the CEO
being like you know what David I got
three other things to get done this
quarter okay like I got I I got this
it's like you you took something that I
thought you could solve my problem by me
buying your company now you're turning
into part of the problem right it's the
one thing I'll say I want to get your
other points is I did we did this deep
dive with Brian Halligan a couple months
ago on our podcast founder of HubSpot
and we got into m&a unexpectedly and the
track we went down is Founders way
underestimate how big a deal it is for
an acquirer it's so much work it's so
distracting it's years of commitment
forget about the money the money often
doesn't matter it really we could talk
about accounting for m&a but up to a
point it doesn't even matter the
accounting right you can either defer it
as Goodwill or write it off for when
your grandchildren are born right it's
the soft costs in the years of
commitment that make m&a like really
risky for a lot of companies right VCS
and Founders don't even think about it
this way thinking about it if I had to
distill some of this advice in a
different way and let's talk about
financial leverage um just remember when
you do have m&a discussions with
companies you're being bought to solve a
problem the problem might be a feature
Gap the problem might be I got three
years behind the problem might be I'm
going to miss the quarter the problem
might be it might be a positive problem
but I want to use leverage on my model
to combine two companies but you're like
the advantage to m&a is it's a quick fix
to a problem a flawed F an often flawed
fix and hair on it but like you can an
executive or Co in a matter of weeks can
solve a problem that otherwise would
take years or maybe impossible to solve
so if you want to get acquired be the
solution like not don't listen be the
solution listen and then figure out what
problem you want to solve and sell
yourself as the solution yeah and you
you're also back to build verse buy
right as a Founder my my CTO would want
to build everything right if it was
everything and we learned a lot of that
the hard way and I I had a wonderful CTO
they were such a fantastic partner but
we learned at the so who you pitch to
the C is like the build buyers ever
present someone there is going you know
what we could build it but it's just
going to take way way too long in
meantime we're losing market share to
XYZ competitor if you're pitching to the
engineering team typically they'll go
they will
underestimate what you have built and go
we could build that every single
situation so again who you're pitching
to if you've got a banker Bankers tend
to know this but when you're trying to
do it yourself
you're up against all of those acquire a
Team Dynamics let us do this it'll take
us six months to build that yeah the
only inside tip I'd add to that is when
you hear from the company when a
potential buyer says build buy or
partner right that's usually internal uh
code word for we're thinking about
buying but we're not quite there yet but
we're pretty close like they're not
really thinking about Builder partner or
theyd be partnering or they would have
already partnered with you or they'd be
building right it doesn't mean they want
to buy you but when you hear that
realize they started that it's somewhat
serious it's some it may not be you it
may be someone else but they're somewhat
serious yeah Jason I think we can move
forward on this like I agree massively
with you like you run out of money and
you just run out of Leverage yes yeah we
hit the m&a banker we had unanimous
agreement on this right if nothing else
negotiations great prevent mistakes but
give you a buffer you got to have this
buffer right let's tie into it's like
why would I why would it's like just
having a professional having someone who
does this all day long so much
experience has made so many mistakes
like why not have that got to have it
you got to have it and okay but secure
multiple biders I think this is maybe
even more nuanced than it looks share
your learnings here competition drives
better terms aim for more suitors what
are your learnings here the first thing
that I find is you hire a banker and the
banker kind of says the pitch is here
are six potential buyers like you're
meaningful to all of them and then as
time goes by like they nailed down and
they go three of those said not
interested at all two said come back to
us timing is not good and a few months
down the line what you find you've got
one one buyer yeah right and I'd say
that is a decision point because it's
because if you carry on at that stage
right like you have very little leverage
at some point or another that buyer
later on in the process and again we've
seen the with financial
sponsors you know their job is to know
that they're the only buyer their job is
to go back and go this is not what you
represented their job like particularly
when you've got it's a smaller
acquisition you've got Junior people on
this there is a lot of uh extrinsic
stuff going on where that person like
shaving money off the deal is looking
better and better to their partners and
to their
associ so
there comes a decision there where I
think like the thing to do with the bank
is to go we're just not there pull out
at this point now again your earlier
Point You' got to have cash you've got
to have managed the process youve got to
manage your stakeholders because my even
saying that to some people who've done
this a many times will sound like crazy
go like you've committed to a process
you can't back out that's when what kind
of company do you have do you have a
company that is like running out of
money and you have no choice here do you
have a company that is like break even
but everybody's lost their energy or do
you actually have a company that's
making some money that is growing and
you can afford to say screw it we'll
come back from this we'll take us time
but lack of competition to me is hugely
problematic all right last one because
we are up over time which is fine it's
our show but let it grow I picked to
Shopify and HubSpot both ipoed at just
under a billion dollars right shop today
worth 143 billion when I did this
HubSpot worth 38 billion right when when
I your point is keep going if you have
good metrics and good unit economics but
when do you know if you have a shif fire
HubSpot it's ever it's easy to bang your
chest when do you know this is the rare
air but I with a huge hat tip to Eric I
look back at again at Uber trade desk in
our portfolio I was lucky enough to meet
BM Kim as he as he dropped out of HBS
and there's so much of that rather be
lucky than be smart but if you'd said to
me in that moment coupon will be worth
$60 billion at some point a great one
yeah no
so it's a roller coaster all the way and
situations where post IPO you look at
this and you go wow like this feels
pretty fully valued trade desk is like
25x or whatever it is 20x since IPO Kang
came out at a pretty Hefty valuation in
what it was like q1 2021 there was a lot
of exuberance in the air then and so you
look at it you look at these companies
and there's moments in time where you go
this is very well valued look the other
problem as an investor is you see
everybody else's bright shiny hood and
you got they're amazing what's going on
under your hood so you always kind of
undervalue your situation because you
just know or the tough stuff
particularly if you're a founder and you
you're dealing with all the problems
it's an easy way to undervalue but I
don't know Jason I think there is a
moment where it's like this is becoming
very hard to compete with a trade Des
today Eric's not on the board I'm still
a shareholder but we're not insiders
massive Network effects there yeah even
post the correction like a Traders is
just hard to start from the beginning I
remember a multi-billionaire coming to
me post selling the ISP coming to me and
the team saying
let's start again right let's start it
again and I was like give me half a
billion dollars right because that's
what's going to take on the Telos right
today otherwise I'm not starting this
again but you so there's a moment when
you're in the rarest of air and even
then like I look at insider trading and
I go it's like the hall Market thinks
that they know now they're clearly
egregious issues with that but a lot of
the time the Insiders are like they're
high on their own BS as well well I
don't know I you may have more wisdom
and insight than I do on this I think
there is escape velocity at a point but
I think a lot of the time pre-ipo you're
not entirely sure and you always run the
risk of that inflection that's just
about to come that customer that you
worked on for five years that you don't
know this is the positive side is about
to say yes or that like product that
everybody thought would be okay and just
like hits Pay Dirt yeah that's the risk
in selling it is yeah I think if you
have a great team and you're gaining
share maybe never sell if you have a
great team in are gaining share if your
team isn't great be honest there's a
great team out there especially today
and if you're losing share you can gain
it back later but easier said make sure
you're committed to gaining share back
because if you're Founders will see a
decline in market share before VCS can
see it before anyone can see you'll
smell it you'll go walk into that deal
and you'll start losing deals but you're
still growing at 100% or 80 or 200%
you'll smell it and it can be turned
around but only with a great team I
think that mediocre team can still ride
a wave but I think great team gaining
market share never sell but those are
the maybe we can wrap it those are my
things to be honest about do you have a
great team and are you gaining share
yeah all right David this was great I
know we went long thanks for everyone we
went a little out of order I think we
got our 10 and watch this read this and
everything when you go to sell your
company maybe go long get a
banker be thoughtful and have another
offer these are some of our big
takeaways but this was great thanks
again for all the time thanks so much
what fun thank you so much for following
up and arranging this be well